one of the great things about India is
this tremendous interest in education
you know people talk about it all the
time you know most parents aspired for
this for their children and so I think
it's a great Foundation we have as a
country uh you know in my experience
growing up here I think there's a lot of
emphasis on you know spending time on
the books and you know learning things
academically I think education needs to
evolve and change just like with
everything else I think you know working
the real world I would say you know it
is important to be well-rounded it's
important to you know try different
things I you know take some risks uh you
know I would encourage people to uh you
know follow their passions a little bit
more all the great things about the
Indian educational system I think
there's a lot of pressure to follow set
Lanes throughout your uh career you know
you're in high school you're thinking
about college I I get surprised people
start preparing for IIT in their eighth
grades and you know that's that's a bit
shocking to me you know I hope you you
know as people are approaching things
they are really taking the time to doing
things understanding things deeper
learning by doing things and you know I
think it's important to remember it's a
long road setbacks actually don't matter
uh you know I think a lot of times when
I was younger you know people would say
you know this person didn't get into
this college or something and that's the
end of the road I mean life is so
different from that keep your hopes keep
you keep your dreams and try to follow
them and you know I think I think most
of how life plays out is up to you not
up to up to what happens outside of you
and I think it's important to keep that
in mind and take the long-term view now
look it's remarkable to be at IIT there
are many many great people who don't
make it in and you will see this later
in life people do well from all walks of
life I think it's important to remember
getting into an elite institution
doesn't guarantee success it matters a
lot but it doesn't guarantee success and
you know I think I think it's important
to keep that perspective in life and you
know Life's a long road and you know so
you want to you want to take it at the
right pace and enjoy what you're doing
you know I get very surprised people
come to iats and immediately they're
thinking about Iams and so on you know I
think I think it's important to get real
world experience and if you take the US
for example at a place like Stanford
most students don't choose their Majors
till they're uh you know final year so
people explore different things and and
find what they're really passionate
about so I think those are all you know
good things to Aspire to I think you
know I would like to see uh people you
know people value creativity value
experience of doing things uh taking
risks and uh you know academics is
important but it is not as important as
it's also made it made out to be had I
stayed the course in graduate school I
probably have a PhD today which would
have made my parents really proud but I
might have missed the opportunity to
bring the benefits of technology to so
many others
and I certainly wouldn't be standing
here speaking to you as Google CEO
the only thing that got me from there to
here other than Locke was a deep passion
for technology and an open mind
so take the time to find the thing that
excites you more than anything else in
the world
not the thing your parents want you to
do or the thing that all your friends
are doing or that Society expects of you
yeah I think that matters a lot people
should be encouraged to take risks a
little bit more and and try different
things till they find what they like
doing something I've noticed over time
is you will have many many opportunities
to reinvent yourself and so uh you know
so I think you know it's worthwhile
taking risks and trying to do something
you really uh you know excited by if the
first attempt you don't do it you know
you can try again and you know things
tend to work out in the long run
so that's the bar so anything we try to
do we think of it that way and so we Aim
High
and you know and you want to aim high
enough that you fail uh you know a few
times I think that's the natural part of
the process uh in fact you know Larry is
to say if you aim if you work on really
difficult things you're better off
because you have no competition others
aren't working on that difficult a
problem and even if you fail you end up
doing something great in the process and
so I think that's the philosophy which
has guided us all through these years in
Silicon Valley you know uh you know part
of the reason so many people start up a
company is you know starting up a
company and even having failed you know
you can wear it like a badge of honor
right and uh I think that's important
you know culturally you know risk is
rewarded so it's a culture of optimism
it's a culture of risk taking and I
think that's really important this is
such an important issue for our company
but also for our country and for a
community of entrepreneurs around the
world
at Google entrepreneurship is in our DNA
Google was founded here at Stanford and
the company's first home was in a garage
just a couple miles from here
like many of you in the audience are
founders who are two young people with a
vision of a better future a better way
and and they decided to follow their
dreams
you know when I see entrepreneurs here
they seem no different to me than the
kind of people I meet in the valley so
intrinsically I think India can do the
same kinds of things and the one good
thing about India is I think you know
there's always been you know whenever
India I used to walk around and go to
some remote corner and find a t-stall
always felt that there is an
entrepreneur there somewhere who saw
that opportunity so I think that streak
has always existed I think part of the
problem is in India you know the
potential is there and the market is
developing I think it'll take a few more
years for it to fully realize the
potential and some absolutely confident
of it I think there's a timing issue but
I think you know we are growing well as
a country I I think we need to stare at
it continue doing all these things and
it will take a few more years and we'll
get there
the trend lines are strongly in the
favor I think every year I can see the
the rate at which things are changing so
in about three to four years you know I
wouldn't be you know
pretty convinced at least in a five to
ten year time frame that there will be
big Global uh you know software
companies coming out of India and we
will be very used to it
you're the ones building the next Google
the next Spotify the next Tesla the next
well we don't even know but what I know
is that someone in this room will do it
one revolutionary idea one Brilliant
Invention can unleash other
entrepreneurs to revolutionize
Industries in ways you can never predict
I remember reading about that and
thinking it's the idea that matters it
didn't matter where you come from or
what your background is I felt welcomed
and embraced people didn't care where I
came from only my ideas and hard work
matter I'm not alone I know how much
hard work it takes to pursue a dream of
building a business the long hours time
away from family the rejection the ideas
you know are brilliant that just don't
seem to catch on
there is a great quote from Thomas
Edison that does the best job of
defining what it's like to be an
entrepreneur
I have not failed I have just found 10
000 ways that don't work I see hubs
growing all over the world
Germany Brazil UK Israel China
the latest figures say that 21 of adults
across 60 countries intend to start a
business in the next three years I am
absolutely convinced that India will be
a global player in the digital economy
and it will be competitive with any
country in the world
[Applause]
so I've always felt that and I think
it's important to follow your dream and
do something with your you know excited
by you know so I think if you follow
your heart and do what you like you will
always do much better and so I don't
think it matters if you're an engineer
or you're a you know you're in science
or it could be in any field there are
many many different ways you know you
can approach things and what matters
most is you know loving what you're
doing and and trying to do well at it so
we're all looking to you the world is
counting on you and we can't wait to see
watchable next thank you
foreign
